### 5.8.1 Downlink

Semi-Persistent Scheduling (SPS) is configured by RRC for a Serving Cell
per BWP. Multiple assignments can be active simultaneously in the same
BWP. Activation and deactivation of the DL SPS are independent among the
Serving Cells.

For the DL SPS, a DL assignment is provided by PDCCH, and stored or
cleared based on L1 signalling indicating SPS activation or
deactivation.

RRC configures the following parameters when the SPS is configured:

\- *cs-RNTI*: CS-RNTI for activation, deactivation, and retransmission;

\- *nrofHARQ-Processes*: the number of configured HARQ processes for
SPS;

\- *harq-ProcID-Offset*: Offset of HARQ process for SPS;

\- *periodicity*: periodicity of configured downlink assignment for SPS.

When the SPS is released by upper layers, all the corresponding
configurations shall be released.

After a downlink assignment is configured for SPS, the MAC entity shall
consider sequentially that the N^th^ downlink assignment occurs in the
slot for which:

> (*numberOfSlotsPerFrame* × SFN + slot number in the frame) =\
> \[(*numberOfSlotsPerFrame* × SFN~start\ time~ + slot~start\ time~) + N
> × *periodicity* × *numberOfSlotsPerFrame* / 10\]\
> modulo (1024 × *numberOfSlotsPerFrame*)

where SFN~start\ time~ and slot~start\ time~ are the SFN and slot,
respectively, of the first transmission of PDSCH where the configured
downlink assignment was (re-)initialised.

NOTE: In case of unaligned SFN across carriers in a cell group, the SFN
of the concerned Serving Cell is used to calculate the occurrences of
configured downlink assignments.