### 5.6.1 Overview

NR Radio Access operating with shared spectrum channel access can
operate in different modes where either PCell, PSCell, or SCells can be
in shared spectrum and an SCell may or may not be configured with
uplink. The applicable deployment scenarios are described in Annex B.3.

The gNB performs channel access mode procedures as described in TS
37.213 \[37\]. The gNB and the UE may apply Listen-Before-Talk (LBT)
before performing a transmission on a cell configured with shared
spectrum channel access. When LBT is applied, the transmitter listens
to/senses the channel to determine whether the channel is free or busy
and performs transmission only if the channel is sensed free.

When the UE detects consistent uplink LBT failures, it takes actions as
specified in TS 38.321 \[6\]. The detection is per Bandwidth Part (BWP)
and based on all uplink transmissions within this BWP. When consistent
uplink LBT failures are detected on SCell(s), the UE reports this to the
corresponding gNB (MN for MCG, SN for SCG) via MAC CE on a different
serving cell than the SCell(s) where the failures were detected. If no
resources are available to transmit the MAC CE, a Scheduling Request
(SR) can be transmitted by the UE. When consistent uplink LBT failures
are detected on SpCell, the UE switches to another UL BWP with
configured RACH resources on that cell, initiates RACH, and reports the
failure via MAC CE. When multiple UL BWPs are available for switching,
it is up to the UE implementation which one to select. For PSCell, if
consistent uplink LBT failures are detected on all the UL BWPs with
configured RACH resources, the UE declares SCG RLF and reports the
failure to the MN via *SCGFailureInformation.* For PCell, if the uplink
LBT failures are detected on all the UL BWP(s) with configured RACH
resources, the UE declares RLF.