### 9.2.5 Paging

Paging allows the network to reach UEs in RRC_IDLE and in RRC_INACTIVE
state through *Paging* messages, and to notify UEs in RRC_IDLE,
RRC_INACTIVE and RRC_CONNECTED state of system information change (see
clause 7.3.3) and ETWS/CMAS indications (see clause 16.4) through *Short
Messages*. Both *Paging* messages and *Short Messages* are addressed
with P-RNTI on PDCCH, but while the former is sent on PCCH, the latter
is sent over PDCCH directly (see clause 6.5 of TS 38.331 \[12\]).

While in RRC_IDLE the UE monitors the paging channels for CN-initiated
paging. While in RRC_INACTIVE with no ongoing SDT procedure (see clause
18.0) the UE monitors paging channels for RAN-initiated paging and
CN-initiated paging. A UE need not monitor paging channels continuously
though; Paging DRX is defined where the UE in RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE
is only required to monitor paging channels during one Paging Occasion
(PO) per DRX cycle (see TS 38.304 \[10\]). The Paging DRX cycles are
configured by the network:

1\) For CN-initiated paging, a default cycle is broadcast in system
information;

2\) For CN-initiated paging, a UE specific cycle can be configured via
NAS signalling;

3\) For RAN-initiated paging, a UE-specific cycle is configured via RRC
signalling;

\- The UE uses the shortest of the DRX cycles applicable i.e. a UE in
RRC_IDLE uses the shortest of the first two cycles above, while a UE in
RRC_INACTIVE uses the shortest of the three.

The POs of a UE for CN-initiated and RAN-initiated paging are based on
the same UE ID, resulting in overlapping POs for both. The number of
different POs in a DRX cycle is configurable via system information and
a network may distribute UEs to those POs based on their IDs.

While in RRC_CONNECTED and while in RRC_INACTIVE with ongoing SDT
procedure, the UE monitors the paging channels in any PO signalled in
system information for SI change indication and PWS notification. In
case of BA, a UE in RRC_CONNECTED only monitors paging channels on the
active BWP with common search space configured.

For operation with shared spectrum channel access, a UE can be
configured for an additional number of PDCCH monitoring occasions in its
PO to monitor for paging. However, when the UE detects a PDCCH
transmission within the UE\'s PO addressed with P-RNTI, the UE is not
required to monitor the subsequent PDCCH monitoring occasions within
this PO.

If Paging Cause is included in the Paging message, a UE in RRC_IDLE or
RRC_INACTIVE state may use the Paging Cause as per TS 23.501\[3\].

**Paging optimization for UEs in CM_IDLE**: at UE context release, the
NG-RAN node may provide the AMF with a list of recommended cells and
NG-RAN nodes as assistance info for subsequent paging. The AMF may also
provide Paging Attempt Information consisting of a Paging Attempt Count
and the Intended Number of Paging Attempts and may include the Next
Paging Area Scope. If Paging Attempt Information is included in the
Paging message, each paged NG-RAN node receives the same information
during a paging attempt. The Paging Attempt Count shall be increased by
one at each new paging attempt. The Next Paging Area Scope, when
present, indicates whether the AMF plans to modify the paging area
currently selected at next paging attempt. If the UE has changed its
state to CM CONNECTED the Paging Attempt Count is reset.

**Paging optimization for UEs in RRC_INACTIVE**: at RAN Paging, the
serving NG-RAN node provides RAN Paging area information. The serving
NG-RAN node may also provide RAN Paging attempt information. Each paged
NG-RAN node receives the same RAN Paging attempt information during a
paging attempt with the following content: Paging Attempt Count, the
intended number of paging attempts and the Next Paging Area Scope. The
Paging Attempt Count shall be increased by one at each new paging
attempt. The Next Paging Area Scope, when present, indicates whether the
serving NG_RAN node plans to modify the RAN Paging Area currently
selected at next paging attempt. If the UE leaves RRC_INACTIVE state the
Paging Attempt Count is reset.

**UE power saving for paging monitoring:** in order to reduce UE power
consumption due to false paging alarms, the group of UEs monitoring the
same PO can be further divided into multiple subgroups. With
subgrouping, a UE shall monitor PDCCH in its PO for paging if the
subgroup to which the UE belongs is paged as indicated via associated
PEI. If a UE cannot find its subgroup ID with the PEI configurations in
a cell or if the UE is unable to monitor the associated PEI occasion
corresponding to its PO, it shall monitor the paging in its PO.

These subgroups have the following characteristics:

\- They are formed based on either CN controlled subgrouping or UE ID
based subgrouping;

\- If CN controlled subgroup ID is not provided from AMF, UE ID based
subgrouping is used if supported by the UE and network;

\- The RRC state (RRC_IDLE or RRC_INACTIVE state) does not impact which
subgroup the UE belongs to;

\- Subgrouping support for a cell is broadcast in the system information
as one of the following: Only CN controlled subgrouping supported, only
UE ID based subgrouping supported, or both CN controlled subgrouping and
UE ID based subgrouping supported;

\- Total number of subgroups allowed in a cell is up to 8 and represents
the sum of CN controlled and UE ID based subgrouping configured by the
network;

\- A UE configured with CN controlled subgroup ID applies CN controlled
subgroup ID if the cell supports CN controlled subgrouping; otherwise,
it derives UE ID based subgroup ID if the cell supports only UE ID based
subgrouping.

PEI associated with subgroups has the following characteristics:

\- If the PEI is supported by the UE, it shall at least support UE ID
based subgrouping method;

\- PEI monitoring can be limited via system information to the last used
cell (i.e., the cell in which the UE most recently received *RRCRelease*
without indicating that the last used cell for PEI shall not be
updated);

\- A PEI-capable UE shall store its last used cell information;

\- gNBs supporting the PEI monitoring to the last used cell function
provide the UE\'s last used cell information to the AMF in the NG-AP UE
Context Release Complete message for PEI capable UEs, as described in TS
38.413 \[26\];

\- UE that expects MBS group notification shall ignore the PEI and shall
monitor paging in its PO.

> **CN controlled subgrouping:** For CN controlled subgrouping, AMF is
> responsible for assigning subgroup ID to the UE. The total number of
> subgroups for CN controlled subgrouping which can be configured, e.g.
> by OAM is up to 8. It is assumed that CN controlled subgrouping
> support is homogeneous within an RNA.
>
> The following figure describes the procedure for CN controlled
> subgrouping:

![](media/image51.wmf)

> Figure 9.2.5-1: Procedure for CN controlled subgrouping

1\. The UE indicates its support of CN controlled subgrouping via NAS
signalling.

2\. If the UE supports CN controlled subgrouping, the AMF determines the
subgroup ID assignment for the UE.

3\. The AMF sends subgroup ID to the UE via NAS signalling.

4\. The AMF informs the gNB about the CN assigned subgroup ID for paging
the UE in RRC_IDLE/ RRC_INACTIVE state.

5\. When the paging message for the UE is received from the CN or is
generated by the gNB, the gNB determines the PO and the associated PEI
occasion for the UE.

6\. Before the UE is paged in the PO, the gNB transmits the associated
PEI and indicates the corresponding CN controlled subgroup of the UE
that is to be paged in the PEI.

> **UE ID based subgrouping:** For UE ID based subgrouping, the gNB and
> UE can determine the subgroup ID based on the UE ID and the total
> number of subgroups for UE ID based subgrouping in the cell. The total
> number of subgroups for UE ID based subgrouping is decided by the gNB
> for each cell and can be different in different cells. The following
> figure describes the procedure for UE ID based subgrouping:

![](media/image52.wmf)

> Figure 9.2.5-2: Procedure for UE ID based subgrouping

1\. The gNB determines the total number of subgroups for UE ID based
subgrouping in a cell.

2\. The gNB broadcasts the total number of subgroups for UE ID based
subgrouping in a cell.

3\. UE determines its subgroup in a cell.

4\. When paging message for the PEI capable UE is received from the CN
at the gNB or is generated by the gNB, the gNB determines the PO and the
associated PEI occasion for the UE.

5\. Before the UE is paged in the PO, the gNB transmits the associated
PEI and indicates the corresponding subgroup derived based on UE ID of
the UE that is paged in the PEI.