### 16.14.1 Overview

Figure 16.14.1-1 below illustrates an example of a Non-Terrestrial
Network (NTN) providing non-terrestrial NR access to the UE by means of
an NTN payload and an NTN Gateway, depicting a service link between the
NTN payload and a UE, and a feeder link between the NTN Gateway and the
NTN payload.

![](media/image97.emf)

Figure 16.14.1-1: Overall illustration of an NTN

NOTE 1: Figure 16.14.1-1 illustrates an NTN; RAN4 aspects are out of
scope.

The NTN payload transparently forwards the radio protocol received from
the UE (via the service link) to the NTN Gateway (via the feeder link)
and vice-versa. The following connectivity is supported by the NTN
payload:

\- An NTN gateway may serve multiple NTN payloads;

\- An NTN payload may be served by multiple NTN gateways.

NOTE 2: In this release, the NTN-payload may change the carrier
frequency, before re-transmitting it on the service link, and vice versa
(respectively on the feeder link).

For NTN, the following applies in addition to Network Identities as
described in clause 8.2:

\- A Tracking Area corresponds to a fixed geographical area. Any
respective mapping is configured in the RAN;

\- A Mapped Cell ID as specified in clause 16.14.5.

NTN can be deployed to provide coverage with earth-moving cell,
quasi-earth-fixed cell and earth-fixed cell which are supported
respectively by the following three types of service link:

\- Earth-fixed: provisioned by beam(s) continuously covering the same
geographical areas all the time (e.g., the case of GSO satellites);

\- Quasi-Earth-fixed: provisioned by beam(s) covering one geographic
area for a limited period and a different geographic area during another
period (e.g., the case of NGSO satellites generating steerable beams);

\- Earth-moving: provisioned by beam(s) whose coverage area slides over
the Earth surface (e.g., the case of NGSO satellites generating fixed or
non-steerable beams).

With NGSO satellites, the gNB can provide either quasi-Earth-fixed
service link or Earth-moving service link, while gNB operating with GSO
satellite can provide Earth fixed service link or quasi-Earth-fixed
service link.

In this release, the UE supporting NTN is GNSS-capable.

In NTN, the distance refers to Euclidean distance.

In this release, NTN is only applicable to FDD system.