### 16.8.1 General

Time Sensitive Communications (TSC), as defined in TS 23.501 \[3\], is a
communication service that supports deterministic communication and/or
isochronous communication with high reliability and availability.
Examples of such services are the ones in the area of Industrial
Internet of Things, e.g. related to cyber-physical control applications
as described in TS 22.104 \[39\].

To support strict synchronization accuracy requirements of TSC
applications, the gNB may signal 5G system time reference information to
the UE using unicast or broadcast RRC signalling with a granularity of
10 ns. Uncertainty parameter may be included in reference time
information to indicate its accuracy. The UE may indicate to the gNB a
preference to be provisioned with reference time information using UE
Assistance Information procedure. Propagation delay compensation (PDC)
mechanisms may be applied based on RTT or TA, and can be performed at
the UE or gNB side. When performed at UE side, the PDC mechanisms are
controlled via RRC signalling by the gNB.

The RTT-based PDC mechanism is achieved by using Rx-Tx time difference
measurements of a single pair of configured TRS/PRS and SRS. The
following figure describes the signalling procedures of UE-side
RTT-based PDC:

![](media/image74.wmf)

Figure 16.8-1: Signalling Procedure of UE-side RTT-based PDC

1\. The gNB provides measurement configurations to the UE;

2a/b. The gNB transmits TRS or PRS to the UE for measurements, and the
UE transmits SRS to the gNB for measurement;

3a/b. Both the UE and the gNB perform Rx-Tx time difference
measurements;

4\. The gNB provides its Rx-Tx time difference measurement to the UE;

5\. The UE performs PDC based on Rx-Tx time difference measurements from
itself and the gNB.

The following figure describes the signalling procedures of gNB-side
RTT-based PDC:

![](media/image75.wmf)

Figure 16.8-2: Signalling Procedure of gNB-side RTT-based PDC

1\. The gNB provides measurement configurations to the UE;

2a/b. The gNB transmits TRS or PRS to the UE for measurements, and the
UE transmits SRS to the gNB for measurement;

3a/b. Both the UE and the gNB perform Rx-Tx time difference
measurements;

4\. The UE reports its Rx-Tx time difference measurement to the gNB;

5\. The gNB performs PDC based on Rx-Tx time difference measurements
from itself and the UE.

The gNB may also receive TSC Assistance Information (TSCAI), see TS
23.501 \[3\], from the Core Network, e.g. during QoS flow establishment,
or from another gNB during handover. TSCAI contains additional
information about the traffic flow such as burst arrival time, burst
periodicity, and survival time. TSCAI knowledge may be leveraged in the
gNB\'s scheduler to more efficiently schedule periodic, deterministic
traffic flows either via Configured Grants, Semi-Persistent Scheduling
or with dynamic grants, and/or to improve the associated link
reliability to meet the survival time requirement (see TS 22.104
\[39\]).

To support uplink periodic traffics of services with survival time
requirement, configured grant resources can be used such that the
mapping relation between the service and the configured grant is known
to both gNB and UE, thus allowing the gNB to use configured grant
retransmission scheduling (addressed by CS-RNTI) to trigger survival
time state entry for the corresponding DRB. Upon survival time state
entry, all RLC entities configured for the DRB are activated by the UE
for duplication to prevent failure of subsequent messages and hence
fulfilling the survival time requirement. If CA or DC duplication for
the DRB is already activated, the DRB should enter survival time state
when any retransmission grant for any of its active LCHs is received.