### 16.15.2 Awareness

XR-Awareness relies on QoS flows, PDU Sets, Data Bursts and traffic
assistance information (see TS 23.501 \[3\]).

The following **PDU Set QoS Parameters** may be provided by the SMF to
the gNB as part of the QoS profile of the QoS flow, and to enable PDU
Set based QoS handling at least one of them shall be provided:

\- PDU Set Delay Budget (PSDB): as defined in TS 23.501 \[3\], upper
bound for the duration between the reception time of the first PDU (at
the UPF for DL, at the UE for UL) and the time when all PDUs of a PDU
Set have been successfully received (at the UE in DL, at the UPF in UL).
When available, supersedes the PDB of the QoS flow.

\- PDU Set Error Rate (PSER): as defined in TS 23.501 \[3\], upper bound
for a rate of non-congestion related PDU Set losses between RAN and the
UE. When available, it supersedes the PER of the QoS flow.

NOTE 1: In this release, a PDU set is considered as successfully
delivered only when all PDUs of a PDU Set are delivered successfully.

\- PDU Set Integrated Handling Information (PSIHI): indicates whether
all PDUs of the PDU Set are needed for the usage of PDU Set by
application layer, as defined in TS 23.501 \[3\].

NOTE 2: For a given QoS flow, the PDU Set QoS parameters are common for
all PDU Sets but can be different for UL and DL.

During the Xn-handover preparation procedure, the source gNB sends the
stored PDU Set QoS Parameters as part of the QoS profile to the target
NG-RAN node. For NG handover, the AMF provides the PDU Set QoS
parameters to the target gNB by means of the NGAP HANDOVER REQUEST
message.

In addition, the UPF can identify PDUs that belong to PDU Sets, and may
indicate to the gNB the following **PDU Set Information** in the GTP-U
header:

\- PDU Set Sequence Number;

\- Indication of End PDU of the PDU Set;

\- PDU Sequence Number within a PDU Set;

\- PDU Set Size in bytes;

\- PDU Set Importance (PSI), which identifies the relative importance of
a PDU Set compared to other PDU Sets within the same QoS Flow.

5GC may provide XR traffic assistance information to gNB through NG AP
TSC Assistance Information (TSCAI) as specified in clause 5.37.8 of TS
23.501\[3\] (for both GBR and non-GBR QoS flows):

\- UL and/or DL Periodicity;

\- N6 Jitter Information (i.e. between UPF and Data Network) associated
with the DL Periodicity.

This assistance information can be used by the gNB to configure DRX to
enable better UE power saving.

In addition, 5GC may provide the following information through NG-U as
specified in clause 5.37.5.2 of TS 23.501\[3\]:

\- Indication of End of Data Burst in the GTP-U header of the last PDU
in downlink.

This information can be used by the gNB to push the UE back to sleep
when possible.

In the uplink, the UE needs to be able to identify PDU Sets and Data
Bursts dynamically, including PSI. How this is done is left up to UE
implementation but when possible for a QoS flow, this is indicated to
the gNB via UE Assistance Information.