### 16.12.1 General

Sidelink relay supports 5G ProSe UE-to-Network Relay (U2N Relay)
function (specified in TS 23.304 \[48\]) to provide connectivity to the
network for U2N Remote UE(s). Both L2 and L3 U2N Relay architectures are
supported. The L3 U2N Relay architecture is transparent to the serving
NG-RAN of the U2N Relay UE, except for controlling sidelink resources.
The detailed architecture and procedures for L3 U2N Relay can be found
in TS 23.304 \[48\].

A U2N Relay UE shall be in RRC_CONNECTED to perform relaying of unicast
data.

For L2 U2N Relay operation, the following RRC state combinations are
supported:

\- Both L2 U2N Relay UE and L2 U2N Remote UE shall be in RRC_CONNECTED
to perform transmission/reception of relayed unicast data; and

\- The L2 U2N Relay UE can be in RRC_IDLE, RRC_INACTIVE or RRC_CONNECTED
as long as all the L2 U2N Remote UE(s) that are connected to the L2 U2N
Relay UE are either in RRC_INACTIVE or in RRC_IDLE.

A single unicast link is established between one L2 U2N Relay UE and one
L2 U2N Remote UE. The traffic to the NG-RAN of L2 U2N Remote UE via a
given L2 U2N Relay UE and the traffic of the L2 U2N Relay UE shall be
separated in different Uu RLC channels.

For L2 U2N Relay, the L2 U2N Remote UE can only be configured to use
resource allocation mode 2 (as specified in 5.7.2 and 16.9.3.1) for data
to be relayed.

Sidelink relay additionally supports 5G ProSe UE-to-UE Relay (U2U Relay)
function (specified in TS 23.304 \[48\]) to provide connectivity between
U2U Remote UEs. Both L2 and L3 U2U Relay architectures are supported.
The L3 U2U Relay architecture is transparent to the AS layer of the U2U
Relay UE. The detailed architecture and procedures for L3 U2U Relay can
be found in TS 23.304 \[48\].

A U2U Relay UE is used to provide coverage extension of the sidelink
transmissions between two U2U Remote UEs. For the coverage extension,
the U2U Remote UE can communicate with a peer U2U Remote UE(s), which
are not reachable within the sidelink coverage, via the U2U Relay UE.

The U2U Relay UE and U2U Remote UE can be in any RRC state. The U2U
Relay UE and the U2U Remote UEs can be in the coverage of the same or
different cells or out-of-coverage. Both sidelink resource allocation
modes, i.e., mode 1 and mode 2 are supported for the U2U Relay UE and
U2U Remote UEs. For U2U Relay, a single PC5 unicast link is established
between U2U Relay UE and each of the U2U Remote UEs. After PC5 unicast
link establishment between U2U Relay UE and U2U Remote UEs, end-to-end
PC5 unicast link connection establishment is performed between U2U
Remote UEs. Only unicast is supported between U2U Relay UE and U2U
Remote UEs.