### 7.3.1 Overview

System Information (SI) consists of a MIB and a number of SIBs, which
are divided into Minimum SI and Other SI:

\- **Minimum SI** comprises basic information required for initial
access and information for acquiring any other SI. Minimum SI consists
of:

\- *MIB* contains cell barred status information and essential physical
layer information of the cell required to receive further system
information, e.g. CORESET#0 configuration. *MIB* is periodically
broadcast on BCH.

\- *SIB1* defines the scheduling of other system information blocks and
contains information required for initial access. SIB1 is also referred
to as Remaining Minimum SI (RMSI) and is periodically broadcast on
DL-SCH or sent in a dedicated manner on DL-SCH to UEs in RRC_CONNECTED.

\- **Other SI** encompasses all SIBs not broadcast in the Minimum SI.
Those SIBs can either be periodically broadcast on DL-SCH, broadcast
on-demand on DL-SCH (i.e. upon request from UEs in RRC_IDLE,
RRC_INACTIVE, or RRC_CONNECTED), or sent in a dedicated manner on DL-SCH
to UEs in RRC_CONNECTED (i.e., upon request, if configured by the
network, from UEs in RRC_CONNECTED or when the UE has an active BWP with
no common search space configured or when the UE configured with inter
cell beam management is receiving DL-SCH from a TRP with PCI different
from serving cell\'s PCI). Other SI consists of:

\- *SIB2* contains cell re-selection information, mainly related to the
serving cell;

\- *SIB3* contains information about the serving frequency and
intra-frequency neighbouring cells relevant for cell re-selection
(including cell re-selection parameters common for a frequency as well
as cell specific re-selection parameters);

\- *SIB4* contains information about other NR frequencies and
inter-frequency neighbouring cells relevant for cell re-selection
(including cell re-selection parameters common for a frequency as well
as cell specific re-selection parameters), which can also be used for NR
idle/inactive measurements;

\- *SIB5* contains information about E-UTRA frequencies and E-UTRA
neighbouring cells relevant for cell re-selection (including cell
re-selection parameters common for a frequency as well as cell specific
re-selection parameters);

\- *SIB6* contains an ETWS primary notification;

\- *SIB7* contains an ETWS secondary notification;

\- *SIB8* contains a CMAS warning notification;

\- *SIB9* contains information related to GPS time and Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC);

\- *SIB10* contains the Human-Readable Network Names (HRNN) of the NPNs
listed in SIB1;

\- *SIB11* contains information related to idle/inactive measurements;

\- *SIB15* contains information related to disaster roaming;

*- SIB16* contains slice-based cell reselection information;

\- *SIB17* and *SIB17bis* contain information related to TRS
configuration for UEs in RRC_IDLE/RRC_INACTIVE;

\- *SIBpos* contains positioning assistance data as defined in TS 37.355
\[43\] and TS 38.331 \[12\];

\- *SIB18* contains information related to the Group IDs for Network
selection (GINs) associated with SNPNs listed in SIB1.

*- SIB19* in TN contains NTN-specific parameters for NTN neighbour cells
as defined in TS 38.331 \[12\].

For sidelink, Other SI also includes:

\- *SIB12* contains information related to NR sidelink communication,
ranging and sidelink positioning;

\- *SIB13* contains information related to
*SystemInformationBlockType21* for V2X sidelink communication as
specified in TS 36.331 clause 5.2.2.28 \[29\];

\- *SIB14* contains information related to
*SystemInformationBlockType26* for V2X sidelink communication as
specified in TS 36.331 clause 5.2.2.33 \[29\];

\- *SIB23* contains information related to ranging and sidelink
positioning.

For non-terrestrial network, Other SI also includes:

\- *SIB19* contains NTN-specific parameters for serving cell and
optionally NTN-specific parameters for neighbour cells as defined in TS
38.331 \[12\].

\- *SIB25* contains TN coverage information as defined in TS 38.331
\[12\].

For MBS broadcast, Other SI also includes:

\- *SIB20* contains MCCH configuration;

\- *SIB21* contains information related to service continuity for MBS
broadcast reception.

For MBS multicast reception in RRC_INACTIVE state, Other SI also
includes:

\- *SIB24* contains the information required to acquire the multicast
MCCH/MTCH configuration as defined in TS 38.331 \[12\].

For ATG network, Other SI also includes:

\- *SIB22* contains ATG-specific parameters for serving cell and
optionally ATG-specific parameters for neighbour cells as defined in TS
38.331 \[12\].

Figure 7.3.1-1 below summarises System Information provisioning.

![](media/image34.wmf)

Figure 7.3.1-1: System Information Provisioning

For a cell/frequency that is considered for camping by the UE, the UE is
not required to acquire the contents of the minimum SI of that
cell/frequency from another cell/frequency layer. This does not preclude
the case that the UE applies stored SI from previously visited cell(s).

If the UE cannot determine the full contents of the minimum SI of a cell
by receiving from that cell, the UE shall consider that cell as barred.

In case of BA, the UE only acquires SI on the active BWP.

If the UE is configured with inter cell beam management:

\- the UE is not required to acquire the SI from the serving cell while
it is receiving DL-SCH from a TRP with PCI different from serving
cell\'s PCI.