### 16.21.1 General

In multi-path relay scenario, a MP Remote UE is connected to a single
gNB via one direct path and one indirect path while the MP Remote UE is
in RRC_CONNECTED state. For the indirect path, both L2 and L3 MP Relay
architectures are supported for MP Relay using PC5 interface, and only
L2 MP Relay architecture is supported for MP Relay using N3C interface.
The L3 MP Relay architecture is transparent to the serving NG-RAN of the
MP Relay UE, except for controlling sidelink resources. In the case of
MP Remote UE using SL indirect path, mode 1 resource allocation is
supported only for intra-DU case, with the SR/BSR and grant sent on the
direct path.

In multi-path relay, the interface between MP Remote UE and MP Relay UE
can be either PC5 or N3C. When the interface between MP Remote UE and MP
Relay UE is N3C interface, the relationship of MP Remote UE and MP Relay
UE is pre-configured or static, and it is up to the implementation of
the MP Remote UE and MP Relay UE how to pre-configure or make it static.

Multi-path relay supports MP Remote UE and MP Relay UE when they are in
the same gNB, and PCell is always on the direct path.

Multi-path relay is supported in the following cell deployment
scenarios:

\- The MP Relay UE and MP Remote UE are served by the same cell;

\- The MP Relay UE and MP Remote UE are served by different
intra-frequency cells of the same gNB;

\- The MP Relay UE and MP Remote UE are served by different
inter-frequency cells of the same gNB.

Multi-path relay is supported in the following sidelink scenarios:

\- Sidelink TX/RX and Uu link share the same carrier at the MP Remote
UE;

\- Sidelink TX/RX and Uu link use different carriers at the MP Remote
UE;

\- Sidelink TX/RX and Uu link share the same carrier at the MP Relay UE;

\- Sidelink TX/RX and Uu link use different carriers at the MP Relay UE.