### 5.8.1 General

NR sidelink communication consists of unicast, groupcast and broadcast.
For unicast, the PC5-RRC connection is a logical connection between a
pair of a Source Layer-2 ID and a Destination Layer-2 ID in the AS. The
PC5-RRC signalling, as specified in clause 5.8.9, can be initiated after
its corresponding PC5 unicast link establishment (TS 23.287 \[55\]). The
PC5-RRC connection and the corresponding sidelink SRBs and sidelink
DRB(s) are released when the PC5 unicast link is released as indicated
by upper layers.

For each PC5-RRC connection of unicast, one sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB0)
is used to transmit the PC5-S message(s) before the PC5-S security has
been established. One sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB1) is used to transmit
the PC5-S messages to establish the PC5-S security. One sidelink SRB
(i.e. SL-SRB2) is used to transmit the PC5-S messages after the PC5-S
security has been established, which is protected. One sidelink SRB
(i.e. SL-SRB3) is used to transmit the PC5-RRC signalling, which is
protected and only sent after the PC5-S security has been established.
One sidelink SRB (i.e. SL-SRB4) is used to transmit/receive the NR
sidelink discovery messages.

For unicast of NR sidelink communication, AS security comprises of
integrity protection of PC5 signalling (SL-SRB1, SL-SRB2 and SL-SRB3)
and user data (SL-DRBs), and it further comprises of ciphering of PC5
signaling (SL-SRB1 only for the Direct Link Security Mode Complete
message as specified in TS 24.587 \[57\] for V2X service or TS 24.554
\[72\] for Proximity-services, SL-SRB2 and SL-SRB3) and user data
(SL-DRBs). The ciphering and integrity protection algorithms and
parameters for a PC5 unicast link are exchanged by PC5-S messages in the
upper layers as specified in TS 33.536 \[60\], and applied to the
corresponding PC5-RRC connection in the AS. Once AS security is
activated for a PC5 unicast link in the upper layers as specified in TS
33.536 \[60\], all messages on SL-SRB2 and SL-SRB3 and/or user data on
SL-DRBs of the corresponding PC5-RRC connection are integrity protected
and/or ciphered by the PDCP.

For unicast of NR sidelink communication, if the change of the key is
indicated by the upper layers as specified in TS 24.587 \[57\] or TS
24.554 \[72\], UE re-establishes the PDCP entity of the SL-SRB1,
SL-SRB2, SL-SRB3 and SL-DRBs on the corresponding PC5-RRC connection.

NOTE 1: In case the configurations for NR sidelink communication are
acquired via the E-UTRA, the configurations for NR sidelink
communication in *SIB12* and *sl-ConfigDedicatedNR* within
*RRCReconfiguration* used in clause 5.8 are provided by the
configurations in *SystemInformationBlockType28* and
*sl-ConfigDedicatedForNR* within *RRCConnectionReconfiguration* as
specified in TS 36.331 \[10\], respectively.

NOTE 2: In this release, there is one-to-one correspondence between the
PC5-RRC connection and the PC5 unicast link as specified in TS
38.300\[2\].

NOTE 3: All SL-DRBs related to the same PC5-RRC connection have the same
activation/deactivation setting for ciphering and the same
activation/deactivation setting for integrity protection as specified in
TS 33.536 \[60\].

NOTE 4: When integrity check failure concerning SL-SRB1 for a specific
destination is detected, the UE sends an indication to the upper layers
\[57\].

NOTE 5: The selection of NULL algorithms means that the PC5 messages are
considered protected for the purposes of being allowed to be sent or
received.