## 8.1 General

The RRC PDU contents in clause 6 and clause 10 are described using
abstract syntax notation one (ASN.1) as specified in ITU-T Rec. X.680
\[6\] and X.681 \[7\]. Transfer syntax for RRC PDUs is derived from
their ASN.1 definitions by use of Packed Encoding Rules, unaligned as
specified in ITU-T Rec. X.691 \[8\].

The following encoding rules apply in addition to what has been
specified in X.691:

\- When a bit string value is placed in a bit-field as specified in 15.6
to 15.11 in X.691, the leading bit of the bit string value shall be
placed in the leading bit of the bit-field, and the trailing bit of the
bit string value shall be placed in the trailing bit of the bit-field;

NOTE: The terms \'leading bit\' and \'trailing bit\' are defined in
ITU-T Rec. X.680. When using the \'bstring\' notation, the leading bit
of the bit string value is on the left, and the trailing bit of the bit
string value is on the right.

\- When decoding types constrained with the ASN.1 Contents Constraint
(\"CONTAINING\"), automatic decoding of the contained type should not be
performed because errors in the decoding of the contained type should
not cause the decoding of the entire RRC message PDU to fail. It is
recommended that the decoder first decodes the outer PDU type that
contains the OCTET STRING or BIT STRING with the Contents Constraint,
and then decodes the contained type that is nested within the OCTET
STRING or BIT STRING as a separate step;

\- When decoding a) RRC message PDUs, b) BIT STRING constrained with a
Contents Constraint, or c) OCTET STRING constrained with a Contents
Constraint, PER decoders are required to never report an error if there
are extraneous zero or non-zero bits at the end of the encoded RRC
message PDU, BIT STRING or OCTET STRING.