### 7.6.2 NR-DC

The UE procedures described in this clause are not applicable if the UE
is provided *scg-State* \[12, TS 38.331\].

If a UE is configured with an MCG using NR radio access in FR1 or in FR2
and with a SCG using NR radio access in FR2 or in FR1, respectively, the
UE performs transmission power control independently per cell group as
described in clauses 7.1 through 7.5.

If a UE is configured with an MCG and a SCG using NR radio access in FR1
and/or in FR2, the UE is configured a maximum power $P_{\text{MCG}}$ for
transmissions on the MCG by *p-NR-FR1* and/or by *p-NR-FR2* and a
maximum power $P_{\text{SCG}}$ for transmissions on the SCG by
*p-NR-FR1* and/or by *p-NR-FR2* and with an inter-CG power sharing mode
by *nrdc-PCmode-FR1* for FR1 and/or by *nrdc-PCmode-FR2* for FR2. The UE
determines a transmission power on the MCG and a transmission power on
the SCG per frequency range.

If a UE is provided *semi-static-mode1* for *nrdc-PCmode-FR1* or for
*nrdc-PCmode-FR2*, or *semi-static-mode2* for *nrdc-PCmode-FR1* or for
*nrdc-PCmode-FR2*, the UE does not expect $P_{\text{MCG}}$ and
$P_{\text{SCG}}$ to be configured such that
${\widehat{P}}_{\text{MCG}} + {\widehat{P}}_{SCG} > {\widehat{P}}_{Total}^{NR - DC}$,
where ${\widehat{P}}_{\text{MCG}}$ is the linear value of
$P_{\text{MCG}}$, ${\widehat{P}}_{SCG}$ is the linear value of
$P_{\text{SCG}}$, and ${\widehat{P}}_{Total}^{NR - DC}$ is the linear
value of a configured maximum transmission power for NR-DC operation in
FR1 or FR2 as defined in \[8-3, TS 38.101-3\].

If a UE is provided *semi-static-mode1* for *nrdc-PCmode-FR1* or for
*nrdc-PCmode-FR2*, the UE determines a transmission power for the MCG or
for the SCG as described in clauses 7.1 through 7.5 using
$P_{\text{MCG}}$ or $P_{\text{SCG}}$ as the maximum transmission power,
respectively.

If a UE is provided *semi-static-mode2* for *nrdc-PCmode-FR1* or for
*nrdc-PCmode-FR2*

\- if the UE is not provided *tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon* for the MCG
or SCG, the UE determines a transmission power for the MCG or for the
SCG as described in clauses 7.1 through 7.5 using $P_{\text{MCG}}$ or
$P_{\text{SCG}}$ as the maximum transmission power, respectively

\- if at least one symbol of slot $i_{1}$ of the MCG or of the SCG that
is indicated as uplink or flexible to a UE by
*tdd-UL-DL-ConfigurationCommon* and
*tdd*-*UL-DL-ConfigurationDedicated*, if provided, overlaps with a
symbol for any ongoing transmission overlapping with slot $i_{2}$ of the
SCG or of the MCG, respectively, the UE determines a power for the
transmission on the SCG or the MCG overlapping with slot $i_{2}$ as
described in clauses 7.1 through 7.5 using $P_{\text{SCG}}$ or
$P_{\text{MCG}}$, respectively, as the maximum transmission power

\- otherwise, the UE determines a power for the transmission on SCG or
the MCG overlapping with slot $i_{2}$, as described in \[8-3, TS
38.101-3\] and in clauses 7.1 through 7.5 without considering
$P_{\text{SCG}}$ or $P_{\text{MCG}}$ respectively

The UE expects to be provided *semi-static-mode2* for *nrdc-PCmode-FR1*
or for *nrdc-PCmode-FR2* only for synchronous NR-DC operation \[10, TS
38.133\].

If a UE

\- is provided *dynamic* for *nrdc-PCmode-FR1* or for *nrdc-PCmode-FR2*,
and

\- indicates a capability to support dynamic power sharing for intra-FR
NR DC,

the UE determines a maximum transmission power on the SCG at a first
symbol of a transmission occasion on the SCG by determining
transmissions on the MCG that

\- are scheduled by DCI formats in PDCCH receptions with a last symbol
that is earlier by at least $T_{\text{offset}}$ from the first symbol of
the transmission occasion on the SCG, or are configured by higher
layers, and

\- overlap with the transmission occasion on the SCG

the maximum transmission power on the SCG is determined as

\-
$\min\left( {\widehat{P}}_{\text{SCG}},{\widehat{P}}_{\text{Total}}^{\text{NR-DC}} - \ {\widehat{P}}_{\text{MCG}}^{actual} \right)$,
if the UE determines transmissions on the MCG with a
${\widehat{P}}_{\text{MCG}}^{actual}$ total power

\- ${\widehat{P}}_{\text{Total}}^{\text{NR-DC}}$, if the UE does not
determine any transmissions on the MCG

where

\-
$T_{\text{offset}} = max\{ T_{proc,MCG}^{\max},T_{proc,SCG}^{\max}\}$,

\- $T_{proc,MCG}^{\max}$ and $T_{proc,SCG}^{\max}$ is the maximum of
$T_{proc,2}$, $T_{proc,CSI}$, $T_{proc,release}^{mux}$,
$T_{proc,2}^{mux}$, and $T_{proc,CSI}^{mux}$ based on the configurations
on the MCG and the SCG, respectively, when the UE indicates the value of
\'long\' for the capability,

\- $T_{proc,MCG}^{\max}$ and $T_{proc,SCG}^{\max}$ is the maximum of
$T_{proc,2}$, $T_{proc,release}^{mux}$, $T_{proc,2}^{mux}$ based on the
configurations on the MCG and the SCG, respectively, when the UE
indicates the value of \'short\' for the capability, and

\- ${\widehat{P}}_{\text{MCG}}^{actual}$ is the total power for the
transmissions on the MCG that overlap with the transmission occasion on
the SCG where ${\widehat{P}}_{\text{MCG}}^{actual}$ is determined based
on transmissions configured by higher layers and on transmissions
scheduled by DCI formats in PDCCH receptions with a last symbol that is
at least $T_{\text{offset}}$ before the first symbol of the transmission
occasion on the SCG.

The UE does not expect to have PUSCH, PUCCH, PRACH, or SRS transmissions
on the MCG that

\- are scheduled/triggered by DCI formats in PDCCH receptions with a
last symbol that is earlier by less than $T_{\text{offset}}$ from the
first symbol of the transmission occasion on the SCG, and

\- overlap with the transmission occasion on the SCG

The UE does not expect to receive a positive TPC command value in a DCI
format 2_2 or a DCI format 2_3 in a PDCCH reception with a last symbol
that is less than $T_{\text{offset}}$ before the first symbol of the
transmission occasion on the SCG, if the transmission on the MCG
overlaps with the transmission occasion on the SCG.

The UE is not required to apply a TPC command the UE receives in a DCI
format 2_2 or a DCI format 2_3 in a PDCCH reception with a last symbol
that is less than $T_{\text{offset}}$ before the first symbol of the
transmission occasion on the SCG, if the transmission on the MCG
overlaps with the transmission occasion on the SCG.