## 7.4 Physical random access channel

A UE determines a transmission power for a physical random access
channel (PRACH), $P_{PRACH,b,f,c}(i)$, on active UL BWP $b$ of carrier
$f$ of cell $c$ based on DL RS for cell $c$ in transmission occasion $i$
as

$P_{PRACH,b,f,c}(i) = \min\left\{ P_{CMAX,f,c}(i),P_{PRACH,target,f,c} + {PL}_{b,f,c} \right\}$
\[dBm\],

where

\- $P_{CMAX,f,c}(i)$ is the UE configured maximum output power defined
in \[8-1, TS 38.101-1\], \[8-2, TS 38.101-2\], \[8-3, TS 38.101-3\] and
\[8-5, TS 38.101-5\] for carrier $f$ of cell $c$ within transmission
occasion $i$,

\- $P_{PRACH,target,f,c}$ is the PRACH target reception power
*PREAMBLE_RECEIVED_TARGET_POWER* provided by higher layers \[11, TS
38.321\] for the active UL BWP $b$ of carrier $f$ of cell $c$, and

\- ${PL}_{b,f,c}$ is a pathloss for the active UL BWP $b$ of carrier $f$
based on the DL RS associated with the PRACH transmission on the active
DL BWP of cell $c$ and calculated by the UE in dB as
*referenceSignalPower* -- higher layer filtered RSRP in dBm, where RSRP
is defined in \[7, TS 38.215\] and the higher layer filter configuration
is defined in \[12, TS 38.331\]. If the active DL BWP is the initial DL
BWP and for SS/PBCH block and CORESET multiplexing pattern 2 or 3 as
described in clause 13, or for a non-serving cell, the UE determines
${PL}_{b,f,c}$ based on the SS/PBCH block associated with the PRACH
transmission.

If a PRACH transmission from a UE is not in response to a detection of a
PDCCH order by the UE, or is in response to a detection of a PDCCH order
by the UE that triggers a contention based random access procedure, or
is associated with a link recovery procedure where a corresponding index
$q_{new}$ is associated with a SS/PBCH block, as described in clause 6,
*referenceSignalPower* is provided by *ss-PBCH-BlockPower*.

If a PRACH transmission from a UE is in response to a detection of a
PDCCH order by the UE that triggers a contention-free random access
procedure and depending on the DL RS that the DM-RS of the PDCCH order
is quasi-collocated with as described in clause 10.1

\- when the PRACH association indicator is not present in the PDCCH
order, or

\- when the cell indicator field in the PDCCH order is not present or
has value 0, or

\- when a value of a PRACH association indicator field in the PDCCH
order is 0 if the UE is not provided *SSB-MTC-AdditionalPCI*, or

\- when the PRACH association indicator field in the PDCCH order
indicates a *physCellId* associated with the cell of the PDCCH order
reception,

or depending on an indicated SS/PBCH block

\- when the PRACH transmission is on a non-serving cell indicated by the
cell indicator field in the PDCCH order, or

\- when a value of a PRACH association indicator field in the PDCCH
order is 1 if the UE is not provided *SSB-MTC-AdditionalPCI*, or

\- when the PRACH association indicator field in the PDCCH order
indicates a *physCellId* that is different than the *physCellId*
associated with the cell of the PDCCH order reception,

*referenceSignalPower* is provided by a corresponding
*ss-PBCH-BlockPower*.

When a value of a PRACH association indicator field in the PDCCH order
is 1 if the UE is not provided *SSB-MTC-AdditionalPCI*, or when the
PRACH association indicator field in the PDCCH order indicates a
*physCellId* that is different that the *physCellId* associated with the
cell of the PDCCH order reception, the UE expects that the indicated
SS/PBCH block in the PDCCH order is configured as
*pathlossReferenceRS-Id* of an active TCI state.

If the UE is configured resources for a periodic CSI-RS reception or the
PRACH transmission is associated with a link recovery procedure where a
corresponding index $q_{new}$ is associated with a periodic CSI-RS
configuration as described in clause 6, *referenceSignalPower* is
obtained by *ss-PBCH-BlockPower* and *powerControlOffsetSS* where
*powerControlOffsetSS* provides an offset of CSI-RS transmission power
relative to SS/PBCH block transmission power \[6, TS 38.214\]. If
*powerControlOffsetSS* is not provided to the UE, the UE assumes an
offset of 0 dB. If the active TCI state for the PDCCH that provides the
PDCCH order includes two RS, the UE expects that one RS is configured
with *qcl-Type* set to \'typeD\' and the UE uses the one RS when
applying a value provided by *powerControlOffsetSS*.

If within a random access response window, as described in clause 8.2,
the UE does not receive a random access response that contains a
preamble identifier corresponding to the preamble sequence transmitted
by the UE, or when a random access response does not exist, the UE
determines a transmission power for a subsequent PRACH transmission, if
any, as described in \[11, TS 38.321\].

If prior to a PRACH retransmission, a UE changes the spatial domain
transmission filter, Layer 1 notifies higher layers to suspend the power
ramping counter as described in \[11, TS 38.321\].

If due to power allocation to PUSCH/PUCCH/PRACH/SRS transmissions as
described in clause 7.5, or due to power allocation in EN-DC or NE-DC or
NR-DC operation, or due to slot format determination as described in
clause 11.1, or due to the PUSCH/PUCCH/PRACH/SRS transmission occasions
are in the same slot or the gap between a PRACH transmission and
PUSCH/PUCCH/SRS transmission is small as described in clause 8.1, or due
to DAPS operation as described in clause 15, or due to HD-UE operation
in paired spectrum as described in clause 17.2, the UE does not transmit
a PRACH in a transmission occasion, or does not transmit any of
$N_{preamble}^{rep}$ preamble repetitions of a PRACH as described in
Clause 8.1, Layer 1 notifies higher layers to suspend the corresponding
power ramping counter.

If due to power allocation to PUSCH/PUCCH/PRACH/SRS transmissions as
described in clause 7.5, or due to power allocation in EN-DC or NE-DC or
NR-DC operation, the UE transmits a PRACH with reduced power in a
transmission occasion, or transmits one or more of $N_{preamble}^{rep}$
preamble repetitions of a PRACH with reduced power, Layer 1 may notify
higher layers to suspend the corresponding power ramping counter.

If the UE transmits less than $N_{preamble}^{rep}$ preamble repetitions
of a PRACH, Layer 1 may notify higher layers to suspend the
corresponding power ramping counter.